# ML-project
Applying machine learning techniques to classify or cluster organisms based on their genetic makeup (codon usage bias)
1. Preliminary analysis: Perform a preliminary analysis on the data. For instance, but not limited to, visualize samples, identify if features (i.e., codon frequencies) are correlated, determine which are most correlated with the target classes, and inspect the distribution of samples among classes. Using clustering, study if there are structures in the data that allow samples from different classes (both DNA type and Kingdom) to be easily identified. Compare the performance of different clustering algorithms and distance measures using the metrics presented during the course.
2. Perform classification to classify organisms into the 11 kingdom classes: Perform features selection, compare different algorithms and identify the one that works the best on this dataset. Finally, test the performance of the best algorithm on the provided test set.
3. Regression: We want to recover from the data loss of the AGA frequency on test samples. Train a regressor which can predict the value of the AGA feature given the remaining ones. Compare different regression algorithms for this task. Since AGA features are missing in test samples, use only the training data for this step and make use of robust evaluation techniques to compare algorithms.
4. Recover AGA codon frequency: Use the regression model trained at the previous step to recover the AGA codon frequency, by predicting the AGA value of each test sample. Determine if the test performance of the best model found at step (2.) improves if the AGA frequency values are also used for prediction.
